---
title:       "February 2013 Meeting Minutes"
author:      "Z98"
date:        2013-03-13
aliases:     [ "february-2013-meeting-minutes", "node/580" ]
---

<p>2013-02-28<br />19:00 UTC<br />dev.reactos.org, #meeting</p><h2>Proceedings</h2><hr /><p>Meeting started at 19:30 by Aleksey Bragin.</p><ul><li>Point 1: Website</li><li>Point 2: GSoC</li><li>Point 3: CLT2013</li></ul><hr /><h2>Point 1</h2><p>Aleksey Bragin reported that backend wise the new site appeared to be functionally complete and that the majority of the remaining work would likely be content-centric. Aleksey also wanted to include a few more people who would have the ability to work on the site so that improvements were not bottlenecked because he or Pierre Schweitzer were busy. Ziliang Guo pointed out there was a desync issue for login sessions between the various systems that make up the website though Aleksey stated his belief that the workaround of logging back in was acceptable for the time being. Pierre also informed the team that several servers would be undergoing maintenance the following week. Ziliang also noted that Drupal does not have built in support for translating book content and a solution would be needed.</p><hr /><h2>Point 2</h2><p>Amine Khaldi reported that the team needed to start preparing for this year&#39;s Google Summer of Code and emphasized that it was very important that mentors be available. Many of the ideas that were not chosen from previous years could act as a good starting point, but new ones also needed to be created. Timo Kreuzer presented a potential new project in the form of metafile support in GDI32. Pierre proposed a kernel filter driver to try and stress ReactOS, but Amine responded with his belief that ReactOS needs better baseline tests first and that there was a significant amount of work just to flesh out the current kernel testing framework. Aleksey also pointed out that the various ideas for GSoC could also be useful as potential projects for his own students.</p><hr /><h2>Point 3</h2><p>Daniel Reimer reported that preparations were continuing for CLT, though Colin Finck and Victor Martinez would be unable to attend this year. Stability however remained a concern as the developers wanted something decent to show at CLT. Timo said he would try to help hack in some fixes as a temporary measure. Thomas Faber reported that he had the scripts necessary to create the hybrid boot/live CD but this had never been done using the CMake builds so he would need to experiment a bit. Daniel suggested the design from last year be used again though it was decided to update the CLT logo.</p><p>Meeting was closed at 21:53 by Aleksey Bragin.</p><p>Minutes prepared by Ziliang Guo.</p>
