---
title:       "Feburary 2014 Meeting Minutes"
author:      "Z98"
date:        2014-03-04
aliases:     [ "/node/789" ]
tags:        [ "meeting-minutes" ]
banner:      "img/project-news/meeting-minutes.png"
---

<p>2014-02-27<br>19:00 UTC<br>dev.reactos.org, #meeting</p><h2>Proceedings</h2><p>Meeting started at 19:14 by Aleksey Bragin.</p><ul><li>Point 1: Shell Development Progress</li><li>Point 2: Contract Jobs</li></ul><h2>Point 1</h2><p>David Quintana and Giannis Adamopoulos provided a summary of the state of the explorer shell implementation, reporting that a fair amount of the start menu functionality is working when run on Windows. Running the current code in ReactOS however requires some improvements to code imported from Wine with respect to vertical toolbars with custom backgrounds and edges. Wine's implementation is targeted to support the minimum needed by common applications but not to the extent needed by the shell. The long term solution would be to fill in the holes and provide Wine a patch. For the short term David is investigating other alternatives for vertical toolbars.</p><p>Giannis also emphasized that there is still a great deal of work that needs to be done for the shell. The address and menu bars in the file browser are currently nonfunctional, things like history and directory treeview are not implemented, and so on. Performance is also degraded as the shell does not perform caching yet so while considerable progress has been made, much remains to be done.</p><h2>Point 2</h2><p>The team discussed the new jobs listing and how to handle applicants. All agreed that before an applicant is offered a contract, he or she must demonstrate ability with a few patches submitted to the project. This raised the issue of making it easier for applicants to find something simple enough to demonstrate their ability without being so complex as to warrant a contract outright.<br><br>For the purpose of getting at least a basic idea of what the current state of ReactOS is, Ziliang Guo requested that all developers send a brief summary of what works and what does not work based on their knowledge to the team, as no single developer has a complete picture of what is going on in every part of the system and this briefing would help the team internally get a better idea of what each individual developer has worked on.</p><p>Meeting was closed at 21:18 by Aleksey Bragin.</p><p>Minutes prepared by Ziliang Guo.</p>
