---
title:       "July 2016 meeting minutes"
author:      "EmuandCo"
date:        2016-10-03
aliases:     [ "node/20920" ]
---

<p>2016-07-28<br />
	20:00 UTC<br />
	irc.freenode.net, #reactos-meeting</p>
<h2>Proceedings</h2>
<p>Meeting started at 20:11 by Amine Khaldi</p>
<ul>
    <li>Point 1: Status Reports</li>
    <li>Point 2: 0.4.2 Release Plans</li>
</ul>

<h2>Point 1: Status Reports</h2>

<p><b>Aleksey Bragin:</b> He starts to get more free time now and tests ROS quite often recently. ReactOS keeps his C coding skills in shape right now which would be forgotten otherwise with all the .net C# he has to do. He plans to fix some release blockers soon.</p>

<p><b>Amine Khaldi:</b> He did his best under the circumstances of bad internet connection by finishing the wine sync and pushing for the 0.4.2 release, along with keeping up with the new wine releases locally so that syncs happen smoothly like they tend to do, plus trying to tackle his other usual tasks.</p>

<p><b>[TheFlash]:</b> He's working on the NTVDM VESA support and fixing NTVDM bugs. That's all he can do while he's busy writing his master's thesis.</p>

<p><b>Hermès Bélusca-Maïto:</b> He worked on improving the event log viewer (since he needs it to test event log stuff that he's also fixing...).</p>

<p><b>Pierre Schweitzer:</b> He's busy finishing his MPR work which gave quite awesome results. He'd like also to real thank Thomas for fixing bad bugs he introduced recently in Cc. You've that one: https://twitter.com/HeisSpiter/status/756935012558180356 and recently: https://www.heisspiter.net/~Pierre/rostests/Net%20Use%20Delete.png (MPR patches are here: http://source.winehq.org/patches/) These are basic thing needed for SAMBA support in the future. But for that ntlanman, a CIFS driver and a RDBSS driver are still left to do. For now, it will just make VM tools (shared folders) usage easier. And also 3rd party like NFS</p>

<p><b>Mark Jansen:</b> He finally got the host-tool xml2sdb in, handled some patches from jira / coverity, worked on CString implementation.</p>

<p><b>Victor Martinez:</b> During these weeks he's been basically looking at Coverity and spamming the Jira Activity Stream with patches. He said thanks to all of the devs reviewing and commiting them. He's also contacted officially Bo the FFS(iirc) developer. He seems to be really nice and he will look at our Jira for any patches/issues with his driver. He will create an user and we could end assining to him. His objective this month is to keep fixing our own bugs, and reduce the Coverity ratio back to 0.5. (ours is 0.7 now)</p>

<p><b>Ged Murphy:</b> He does not have too much to add really. He's got a bit further with the fltmgr. He's been dissecting and understanding the internal structs, most of which he now have laid out in an internal header. He's also got some way to registering filters and registering contexts. He suspects he can now load and register filter drivers, although they won't do anything yet.</p>

<h2>Point 2: 0.4.2 Release Plans</h2>

<p>We are ready to release 0.4.2 RC1 asap. Only things left to do are fixing of critical regressions and the testing round of all apps on the testing wiki pages.</p>
<p>Suggestions of things left todo for 0.4.2:</p>
<p>-Update uniATA to most recent version</p>
<p>-msvcrt bugfix has to be committed and tested thoroughly (https://jira.reactos.org/browse/CORE-11673)</p>
<p>-Opera fix. (This fix will not be included into 0.4.2, but the next release)</p>

<p>Other discussions took place too, like plans for a real rapps database system which might be maintained off SVN trunk and by a website and a overhaul of the versioning system we use for releases. Both discussions were put on
hold for after the meetings.</p>

<p>Meeting was closed at 22:31 by Aleksey Bragin</p>
<p>Meeting minutes prepared by Daniel Reimer</p>
