---
title:       "March 2013 Meeting Minutes"
author:      "Z98"
date:        2013-04-10
aliases:     [ "march-2013-meeting-minutes", "node/599" ]
banner:      "img/project-news/meeting-minutes.png"
---

<p>2013-03-28<br />19:00 UTC<br />dev.reactos.org, #meeting</p><h2>Proceedings</h2><hr /><p>Meeting started at 19:26 by Aleksey Bragin.</p><ul><li>Point 1: GSoC Status</li><li>Point 2: CLT Report</li><li>Point 3: LinuxTag Berlin</li><li>Point 4: Foundation Funding</li><li>Point 5: Release Plans</li></ul><hr /><h2>Point 1</h2><p>Amine Khaldi reported that the Google Summer of Code application had been completed and a preliminary list of project proposals set up on the wiki, with a link to the main GSoC page put on the front page. Feedback from Google indicated that there was nothing wrong per se with the application last year and the project was encouraged to try again this year.</p><hr /><h2>Point 2</h2><p>Thomas Faber reported that the CLT convention went well, though a variety of bugs manifested including a window activation issue. They had to click on the task bar icon to focus on a window as simply clicking on it caused graphical glitches. Some of the more common questions involved ReactOS&#39; legality, which the team was well practiced in answering. Ziliang Guo asked for a more detailed summary that he could use as a potential news item. Others asked if photos could be posted, though Ziliang stated that would take a bit more effort.</p><hr /><h2>Point 3</h2><p>Thomas also reminded people that LinuxTag is also coming up and some additional preparation would need to be done. He hoped that a new release would be ready for them to show off. The number of people who are likely able to attend might be problematic due to scheduling conflicts for many of them.</p><hr /><h2>Point 4</h2><p>Daniel reported that the German foundation was still trying to deal with the legalities of being a non-profit that funded development. Scholarships remain the best option and Matthias Kupfer had a meeting recently but Daniel had not gotten a report yet. Ziliang asked whether the project should think about setting up a US based foundation to try to short-circuit the problem but Aleksey Bragin stated he was willing to wait a bit longer. Ziliang also asked Daniel to get Matthias to send an internal report to the team.</p><hr /><h2>Point 5</h2><p>Aleksey Bragin proposed that the next release should be 0.4.0, which Ziliang and Victor Martinez immediately objected to. Victor had concerns about the memory manager whereas Ziliang did not believe such a version jump was reasonable if the desire was to get a release out quickly. Others felt that immense progress had been made since 0.3.0 with many new features, but there was no clear cut point for when a 0.4.0 release should obviously be spun. While Victor agreed with the others about the PR boost a 0.4.0 release would provide, he sided with Ziliang in that such a release needs to be more solid to make it worthy of the bump. Thomas also wanted a release he could use for LinuxTag, and few of the developers were willing to bet that the memory manager issues could be ironed out before and still give time to do a release with the necessary regression testing. It was ultimately decided to do a 0.3.15 release to give some breathing room for developers and also have a point of stability so more disruptive development can happen in trunk once more. Whether the next release would be 0.4.0 or 0.3.16 would have to wait to see how much progress is made on the memory management issues.</p><p>Meeting was closed at 20:58 by Aleksey Bragin.</p><p>Minutes prepared by Ziliang Guo.</p>
