---
title:       "September 2012 Meeting Minutes"
author:      "Z98"
date:        2012-10-03
aliases:     [ "september-2012-meeting-minutes", "/node/323" ]
tags:        [ "meeting-minutes" ]
banner:      "img/project-news/meeting-minutes.png"
---

<p>2012-09-27<br />19:00 UTC<br />freenode, #reactos-meeting</p>
<p>Proceedings</p>
<hr />
<p>Meeting started at 19:17 by Aleksey Bragin</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<ul>
<li>0. Website progress, plan for the next month.</li>
<li>1. Next RosBE release - recent status and what will come next.</li>
<li>2. Gallium3D poor performance - what to do.</li>
<li>3. CIA.vc replacement.</li>
</ul>
<hr />
<p>Point 0</p>
<p>Aleksey Bragin summarized the work done since the last meeting, including setting up an LDAP mirror that Jira could use to authenticate against. With Jira migration effectively done, the next big step is making sure Typo3 is ready for deployment. Aleksey wants this done as soon as possible and if need be is prepared to contract out the work. Ziliang Guo brought up the fact that translations are in a somewhat disorganized state, as there is not a single point of contact for language maintainers. Translators have also not had time to take a look at the new system, and there is a significant body of new content that would need translation. A few of the team members volunteered to take a look at how translation will work in Typo3 so that they will be able to help new/returning translators. The number of languages being offered is also going to be parred down significantly.</p>
<p>Some discussion was done on the best way to re-open site registrations. As reCaptcha failed to keep out presumed spambots, alternatives were discussed. A likely alternative was found and the team will see about implementing it. No timetable.</p>
<p>Point 1</p>
<p>Feedback regarding the new RosBE RC was provided and pending updates based on the feedback described. The issues Ziliang encountered while trying to build trunk were reported as resolved, though he had not had time to verify this. There was also a debate on whether to release the final 2.1 BE before the next ReactOS point release. Olaf Siejka insisted that before a BE release could be made, it had to be tested along with the entire build and test environment first before it can be released. Steps were outlined to get this done.</p>
<p>Point 2</p>
<p>The version of Mesa that ReactOS has relied upon for 3D graphics is very outdated and has effectively been abandoned upstream. The current Mesa version also suffers from crashing bugs. The project would like to use Gallium, but its dependency on LLVM makes integration into the build burdensome. A proposal was made to just drop in a pre-built binary like with Wine's gecko, which did not meet any major objections. The only concern was what kind of performance degradation would be caused by using only software rendering as provided by Gallium. Kamil Hornicek and Olaf volunteered to work with J&eacute;r&ocirc;me Gardou to do further benchmarks to see what the exact situation is.</p>
<p>Point 3</p>
<p>The project used CIA.vc for primarily two things, an IRC bot to report commits and a way to collate commits for display and statistics. Fisheye is capable of the latter and will likely be used once the migration is complete, but cannot do the former. A proposal was made to create a new IRC bot that operated off of a SVN commit hook.</p>
<p>Addendum: Pierre Schweitzer wrote the new bot and it is already running.</p>
<p>Meeting was closed at 21:34 by Aleksey Bragin.</p>
<p>Minutes prepared by Ziliang Guo.</p>
