---
title:       "July 2013 Meeting Minutes"
author:      "Z98"
type:        news
date:        2013-08-04
draft:       false
promote:     true
sticky:      false
url:         /node/690
aliases:     [ node/690 ]
news:        [ "news" ]

---

<p>Note that while there was a June meeting, all of the points were internal in nature. As such, there will be no public minutes for that meeting.</p><p>2013-07-25<br />19:00 UTC<br />dev.reactos.org, #meeting</p><h2>Proceedings</h2><p>Meeting started at 19:23 by Aleksey Bragin.</p><ul><li>Point 1: Students</li><li>Point 2: Release</li><li>Point 3: Contracts</li></ul><h2>Point 1</h2><p>Aleksey Bragin reported that several of his students showed great promise. Three students in particular have started doing some low level work in extending ReactOS&#39; functionality in the area of virtualization. They are still in the exploration and learning stages, but Aleksey has high hopes for them.</p><h2>Point 2</h2><p>Ziliang Guo briefly discussed plans to do a series of hardware testing focused testing calls. He stated it was mostly a matter of finding time to sit down and finalize the documentation before it could happen. Aleksey also pressed Ziliang to get the 0.4.0 targets into JIRA.</p><h2>Point 3</h2><p>Edijs Kolesnikovics protested the apparent lack of progress in new development contracts, though the situation had not changed in regards to availability for the other developers. He also raised the issue of getting more patches from JIRA reviewed, though Ziliang pointed out there is no way to force developers to do reviews. Ziliang did however have a potential fix to try to at least have patches given a first pass, though it would take a bit more time to pull together.</p><p>Meeting was closed at 20:24 by Aleksey Bragin.</p><p>Minutes prepared by Ziliang Guo.</p>
