---
title:       "Indiegogo software/hardware vote info"
author:      "Z98"
type:        blog
date:        2014-04-07
draft:       false
promote:     false
sticky:      false
url:         /node/809
aliases:     [ node/809 ]

---

<p>So there's quite a few questions coming in about the <a href="https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/reactos-community-edition">campaign</a> and its rewards. Questions are good, that means people are paying attention to us.</p><p>One of the most common ones is in regard to how to "push" one's desired hardware or software. Well, the FAQ provides a brief explanation and we'll expand upon it here. After the funding period is over, a series of votes will be held to whittle down candidates. The important thing is properly defining things. After all, Photoshop has had quite a few iterations and the latest version does not support XP to begin with. So properly defining what people are voting on is especially important and that definition will be done in consultation with voting backers. The key thing however is that the hardware or software must have XP support to be eligible. If the minimum supported version for a piece of software is Vista or 7, that automatically disqualifies it as a choice. Same goes for if a hardware does not have XP drivers. The project is not offering to try to write drivers for hardware that the manufacturer does not already provide XP support for, we don't have the manpower for that and as the Linux guys will tell you, it's a complicated task if no documentation is readily available.</p><p>Another thing to keep in mind is that the more esoteric the application you want, the longer it will take. For example, if the backers end up voting for some kind of management software that heavily ties into group policy in order to manage the operating system at a fine grained level, well, Wine never really bothered much with group policy beyond probably the very basics, so this kind of project would require ReactOS to basically implement the features from scratch. That being the case, we're talking about a fairly lengthy development process. So when choosing which apps you want supported, think carefully about whether you're willing to wait for a long development period for your app or if you have another choice that will likely take less time to get working.</p><p>An important thing to note regarding the hardware and software is availability. If the cost of copies or samples passes a certain threshold, the project will require that backers who voted for it provide a copy or sample. So for example, if a fairly generic network card is one of the selected hardware for the project to support, the project will eat the cost of acquiring samples since such a piece of hardware would not cost too much. A $500 GPU on the other hand, if none of the developers already have one, the project will request that the backers provide one. The same goes for software. Supporting relatively low cost or cost free software will be covered by the project. Photoshop or Autodesk, err, yeah, we'll be asking that licenses be provided.</p><p>That said, this is not a ploy to get free hardware or software by the project. Once work on the Community Edition is completed, the project will offer to return the samples back to the backers that paid for them where possible. A backer may choose to leave the sample with the project to ensure we continue to have access to samples for debugging, but we leave that choice to the backer.</p><p>As a final note, if you're a manufacturer or lab or business that is interested in getting ReactOS to support some type of industrial or scientific instrument that only has XP support, I'd encourage you to contact the project directly to work out some kind of arrangement.</p><p>Transparency is important in ventures such as these and we hope that the above answers some of your questions. If you have more, please do send them in.</p><p>Discussion: https://www.reactos.org/forum/viewtopic.php?f=2&amp;t=13197</p>
