---
title:       "Plugging Leaks"
author:      "Z98"
type:        blog
date:        2014-10-27
draft:       false
promote:     false
sticky:      false
url:         /node/904
aliases:     [ node/904 ]

---

<p>David is currently a tad busy getting the shell branch ready for the big merge, so I am taking over his usual report this time. Last week was a flurry of activity as David, Giannis, and a community member who wishes to be identified as "V" (those of you in IRC will know who he is, but he requested that we refrain from posting his nick and I expect the rest of the community to honor his request) investigated the large number of memory leaks that explorer_new suffered from. The initial count of leaks was around twenty instances where they occurred but the amount of memory that got leaked was fairly significant seeing as the mere act of opening the file browser or navigating its menus or the start menu would cause the object counts to rise. V however had a nice little bit of code designed to track the lifetime of objects in win32k. Using this, he performed function traces to track where these objects were created and used. This then enabled David and Giannis to determine what objects were being leaked and were the appropriate place to clean them up should be. The patch itself may actually be a useful addition to the development toolkit as a sort of performance or resource measurement utility, though it would need some fine tuning to make it easier to use. Steady progress was made throughout the week and while a few leaks still remain, none of them are severe enough to constitute blockers for a merge. Before any of you get excited however, there are other blockers beyond the memory leaks.</p>
<p>The rate of progress over the last week was rather impressive and V deserves special mention for the help he provided. David had stated in previous posts that tracking down leaks was one of his least liked tasks and not one he was entirely sure how to approach. V's patch not only made tracking the leaks much less tedious, he also took the time to parse the output from his tracker to provide succinct logs that were easier to read, allowing David and Giannis to focus on fixing up the code instead of spending lots of time searching for the leaks manually. This kind of direct contribution is extremely useful to the project since it directly contributes to improving ReactOS itself. For this, V has the project's thanks.</p>
<p>Discussion: https://www.reactos.org/forum/viewtopic.php?f=2&amp;t=13723</p>

