---
title:       "Funny title not found"
author:      "gigaherz"
type:        blog
date:        2014-12-07
changed:     2014-12-08
draft:       false
promote:     false
sticky:      false
url:         /node/924
aliases:     [ node/924 ]

---

<p>Hello everyone,</p>
<p>If you remember from last week, my top priority was to investigate the crash when pasting files, but because Giannis insisted a bit that I should fix the merged folders usage so that the windows classes can be used instead of our own, I went back to the merged folders, and started looking at why the windows classes didn’t work. The first thing I had to fix was a misunderstanding of the return value of the filtering callback, which returns S_FALSE if the item is shown, and S_OK if the item has to be filtered away. With that fixed, I found another issue, where the windows CMergedFolder uses a custom SHITEMID structure to represent the virtual merged items, while my implementation was assuming the ITEMIDLIST would contain filesystem contents instead of the custom ones. This caused the Programs item not to be properly removed from the top menu.</p>
<p>I had to work around that by finding the localized name of the Programs folder, then parsing that name into a child ITEMIDLIST of the merged folder. While I was at it, I also made it create two separate merged folder objects manually: one for the top Start Menu items, and one for the Programs submenu. This seems to be what Windows does, based on the function names I saw during my investigation. With the Windows merged folder working, what was left was to make our merged folder also use a similar virtual SHITEMID structure. This seems to require a lot more work than I expected originally, so I saved a backup patch of the changes and moved on to other more pressing issues.</p>
<p>I had a quick look at the paste crash, and it turns out the crash is due to a regression in SHChangeNotify, which is Huw’s code so I left it for him to do whatever is necessary to fix it. The next thing in the list was the context menus of the taskbar. I traced the issue to an unimplemented method in a class of browseui. This class would (if implemented), add the menu item for the “Toolbars” submenu in the taskbar, and handle showing and hiding taskbar toolbars.</p>
<p>Because no one had modified that class for a long time, it wouldn’t possibly be a problem with that class, so I compared the code that used the class with the version from before I converted explorer-new (now just “explorer” :P) to C++, and I saw that the older code ignored errors from that function, so I replicated the behaviour, and this fixed the menus. While looking at this, I noticed how the taskbar context menu had a separator at the top, and that’s what gave me the idea to implement just enough of the class I mentioned that it would allow a dummy Toolbars submenu to show, just to fill the blank. I got sidetracked by this, and I ended up creating a translatable menu resource, with some subitems, just so the placeholder was more complete.</p>
<p>This is it for this week, next week I plan to continue as I have been going, fixing issues and improving things.</p>
<p>See you next weekend.</p>
<p>Discussion: https://www.reactos.org/forum/viewtopic.php?f=2&amp;t=13847</p>

